# Linked Glyphs

| Name | Level | School | Range | Duration | Damage | Save DC & Type |
|------|-------|--------|-------|----------|--------|----------------|
| Linked Glyphs | 3 | Abjuration | Point | Permanent | - | - |

When you cast this spell, you inscribe a detection glyph that later activates a magical effect at the site of a separate, linked glyph. You inscribe the detection glyph either on a surface (such as a table or a section of floor or wall) or within an object that can be closed (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest) to conceal the glyph. The glyph can cover an area no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If the surface or object is moved more than 10 feet from where you cast this spell, the detection glyph is broken, and the spell ends without being triggered. Both glyphs are nearly invisible, and finding either requires a successful Intelligence ({@skill Investigation}) check against your spell save DC. You decide what triggers the detection glyph when you cast this spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical triggers include touching or standing on the glyph, removing another object covering the glyph, approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, or manipulating the object on which the glyph is inscribed. For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most common triggers include opening that object, approaching within a certain distance of the object, or seeing or reading the glyph. Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends. You can further refine the trigger so the spell activates only under certain circumstances or according to physical characteristics (such as height or weight), creature kind (for example, the ward could be set to affect aberrations or drow), or alignment. You can also set conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph, such as those who say a certain password. When you inscribe the detection glyph, choose an alarm glyph or spell glyph to link to it. Y o u   c r e a t e   a n d   m a g i c a l l y   l i n k   t w o   g l y p h s :   a   d e t e c t i o n   g l y p h   a n d   a n   e f f e c t   g l y p h .   E a c h   o f   t h e s e   t w o   g l y p h s   m u s t   s t a y   w i t h i n   1 0 0   m i l e s   o f   t h e   o t h e r   o r   t h e   s p e l l   e f f e c t   e n d s .   W h e n   t h e   d e t e c t i o n   g l y p h   i s   t r i g g e r e d ,   t h e   e f f e c t   g l y p h   r e a c t s   l i k e   a n   a l a r m   s p e l l ,   c r e a t i n g   a   m e n t a l   p i n g   i n   y o u r   m i n d   i f   y o u   a r e   w i t h i n   1   m i l e   o f   t h e   e f f e c t   g l y p h .   T h i s   p i n g   a w a k e n s   y o u   i f   y o u   a r e   s l e e p i n g . Y o u   c r e a t e   a n d   m a g i c a l l y   l i n k   t w o   g l y p h s :   a   d e t e c t i o n   g l y p h   a n d   a n   e f f e c t   g l y p h .   T h e s e   t w o   g l y p h s   m u s t   b e   w i t h i n   1 0 0   f e e t   o f   e a c h   o t h e r .   Y o u   c a n   s t o r e   a   p r e p a r e d   s p e l l   o f   4 t h   l e v e l   o r   l o w e r   i n   t h e   e f f e c t   g l y p h   b y   c a s t i n g   i t   a s   p a r t   o f   c r e a t i n g   t h e   g l y p h s .   T h e   s p e l l   m u s t   t a r g e t   a   s i n g l e   c r e a t u r e   o r   a n   a r e a .   T h e   s p e l l   b e i n g   s t o r e d   h a s   n o   i m m e d i a t e   e f f e c t   w h e n   c a s t   i n   t h i s   w a y .   W h e n   t h e   d e t e c t i o n   g l y p h   i s   t r i g g e r e d ,   t h e   s p e l l   s t o r e d   i n   t h e   e f f e c t   g l y p h   i s   c a s t .   I f   t h e   s p e l l   h a s   a   t a r g e t ,   i t   t a r g e t s   t h e   c r e a t u r e   t h a t   t r i g g e r e d   t h e   g l y p h .   I f   t h e   s p e l l   a f f e c t s   a n   a r e a ,   t h e   a r e a   i s   c e n t e r e d   o n   t h e   e f f e c t   g l y p h .   I f   t h e   s p e l l   s u m m o n s   h o s t i l e   c r e a t u r e s   o r   c r e a t e s   h a r m f u l   o b j e c t s   o r   t r a p s ,   t h e y   a p p e a r   a s   c l o s e   a s   p o s s i b l e   t o   t h e   e f f e c t   g l y p h .   I f   t h e   s p e l l   r e q u i r e s   { @ s t a t u s   c o n c e n t r a t i o n } ,   i t   l a s t s   u n t i l   t h e   e n d   o f   i t s   f u l l   d u r a t i o n .

**At Higher Levels.** When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher to create a spell glyph, you can store any spell of up to the same level as the slot you use.

^Tags: #spell #school_abjuration #level_3