# Transmute Rock

| Name | Level | School | Range | Duration | Damage | Save DC & Type |
|------|-------|--------|-------|----------|--------|----------------|
| Transmute Rock | 5 | Transmutation | 120 ft. | Permanent | 4d8 bludgeoning | - |

You choose an area of stone or mud that you can see that fits within a 40-foot cube and is within range, and choose one of the following effects. N o n m a g i c a l   r o c k   o f   a n y   s o r t   i n   t h e   a r e a   b e c o m e s   a n   e q u a l   v o l u m e   o f   t h i c k ,   f l o w i n g   m u d   t h a t   r e m a i n s   f o r   t h e   s p e l l ' s   d u r a t i o n . The ground in the spell's area becomes muddy enough that creatures can sink into it. Each foot that a creature moves through the mud costs 4 feet of movement, and any creature on the ground when you cast the spell must make a Strength saving throw. A creature must also make the saving throw when it moves into the area for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there. On a failed save, a creature sinks into the mud and is {@condition restrained}, though it can use an action to end the {@condition restrained} condition on itself by pulling itself free of the mud. If you cast the spell on a ceiling, the mud falls. Any creature under the mud when it falls must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes {@damage 4d8} bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. N o n m a g i c a l   m u d   o r   q u i c k s a n d   i n   t h e   a r e a   n o   m o r e   t h a n   1 0   f e e t   d e e p   t r a n s f o r m s   i n t o   s o f t   s t o n e   f o r   t h e   s p e l l ' s   d u r a t i o n .   A n y   c r e a t u r e   i n   t h e   m u d   w h e n   i t   t r a n s f o r m s   m u s t   m a k e   a   D e x t e r i t y   s a v i n g   t h r o w .   O n   a   s u c c e s s f u l   s a v e ,   a   c r e a t u r e   i s   s h u n t e d   s a f e l y   t o   t h e   s u r f a c e   i n   a n   u n o c c u p i e d   s p a c e .   O n   a   f a i l e d   s a v e ,   a   c r e a t u r e   b e c o m e s   { @ c o n d i t i o n   r e s t r a i n e d }   b y   t h e   r o c k .   A   { @ c o n d i t i o n   r e s t r a i n e d }   c r e a t u r e ,   o r   a n o t h e r   c r e a t u r e   w i t h i n   r e a c h ,   c a n   u s e   a n   a c t i o n   t o   t r y   t o   b r e a k   t h e   r o c k   b y   s u c c e e d i n g   o n   a   { @ d c   2 0 }   S t r e n g t h   c h e c k   o r   b y   d e a l i n g   d a m a g e   t o   i t .   T h e   r o c k   h a s   A C   1 5   a n d   2 5   h i t   p o i n t s ,   a n d   i t   i s   i m m u n e   t o   p o i s o n   a n d   p s y c h i c   d a m a g e .

^Tags: #spell #school_transmutation #level_5 #damage_bludgeoning #area_effect