# True Polymorph

| Name | Level | School | Range | Duration | Damage | Save DC & Type |
|------|-------|--------|-------|----------|--------|----------------|
| True Polymorph | 9 | Transmutation | 30 ft. | Timed | - | - |

Choose one creature or nonmagical object that you can see within range. You transform the creature into a different creature, the creature into a nonmagical object, or the object into a creature (the object must be neither worn nor carried by another creature). The transformation lasts for the duration, or until the target drops to 0 hit points or dies. If you concentrate on this spell for the full duration, the transformation lasts until it is dispelled. This spell has no effect on a shapechanger or a creature with 0 hit points. An unwilling creature can make a Wisdom saving throw, and if it succeeds, it isn't affected by this spell. I f   y o u   t u r n   a   c r e a t u r e   i n t o   a n o t h e r   k i n d   o f   c r e a t u r e ,   t h e   n e w   f o r m   c a n   b e   a n y   k i n d   y o u   c h o o s e   w h o s e   c h a l l e n g e   r a t i n g   i s   e q u a l   t o   o r   l e s s   t h a n   t h e   t a r g e t ' s   ( o r   i t s   l e v e l ,   i f   t h e   t a r g e t   d o e s n ' t   h a v e   a   c h a l l e n g e   r a t i n g ) .   T h e   t a r g e t ' s   g a m e   s t a t i s t i c s ,   i n c l u d i n g   m e n t a l   a b i l i t y   s c o r e s ,   a r e   r e p l a c e d   b y   t h e   s t a t i s t i c s   o f   t h e   n e w   f o r m .   I t   r e t a i n s   i t s   a l i g n m e n t   a n d   p e r s o n a l i t y . The target assumes the hit points of its new form, and when it reverts to its normal form, the creature returns to the number of hit points it had before it transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to 0 hit points, any excess damage carries over to its normal form. As long as the excess damage doesn't reduce the creature's normal form to 0 hit points, it isn't knocked {@condition unconscious}. The creature is limited in the actions it can perform by the nature of its new form, and it can't speak, cast spells, or take any other action that requires hands or speech unless its new form is capable of such actions. The target's gear melds into the new form. The creature can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of its equipment. Y o u   c a n   t u r n   a n   o b j e c t   i n t o   a n y   k i n d   o f   c r e a t u r e ,   a s   l o n g   a s   t h e   c r e a t u r e ' s   s i z e   i s   n o   l a r g e r   t h a n   t h e   o b j e c t ' s   s i z e   a n d   t h e   c r e a t u r e ' s   c h a l l e n g e   r a t i n g   i s   { @ f i l t e r   9   o r   l o w e r | b e s t i a r y | c h a l l e n g e   r a t i n g = [ & 0 ; & 9 ] | m i s c e l l a n e o u s = ! s w a r m } .   T h e   c r e a t u r e   i s   f r i e n d l y   t o   y o u   a n d   y o u r   c o m p a n i o n s .   I t   a c t s   o n   e a c h   o f   y o u r   t u r n s .   Y o u   d e c i d e   w h a t   a c t i o n   i t   t a k e s   a n d   h o w   i t   m o v e s .   T h e   D M   h a s   t h e   c r e a t u r e ' s   s t a t i s t i c s   a n d   r e s o l v e s   a l l   o f   i t s   a c t i o n s   a n d   m o v e m e n t . If the spell becomes permanent, you no longer control the creature. It might remain friendly to you, depending on how you have treated it. I f   y o u   t u r n   a   c r e a t u r e   i n t o   a n   o b j e c t ,   i t   t r a n s f o r m s   a l o n g   w i t h   w h a t e v e r   i t   i s   w e a r i n g   a n d   c a r r y i n g   i n t o   t h a t   f o r m ,   a s   l o n g   a s   t h e   o b j e c t ' s   s i z e   i s   n o   l a r g e r   t h a n   t h e   c r e a t u r e ' s   s i z e .   T h e   c r e a t u r e ' s   s t a t i s t i c s   b e c o m e   t h o s e   o f   t h e   o b j e c t ,   a n d   t h e   c r e a t u r e   h a s   n o   m e m o r y   o f   t i m e   s p e n t   i n   t h i s   f o r m ,   a f t e r   t h e   s p e l l   e n d s   a n d   i t   r e t u r n s   t o   i t s   n o r m a l   f o r m .

^Tags: #spell #school_transmutation #level_9 #area_effect